The updated plan is operationally clear, but there is one launch blocker: Anthropic’s model/settings are verified, while I cannot verify gpt-5.6-sol as a public OpenAI API model. Cursor’s “GPT-5.6 Sol” model name does not necessarily correspond to an OpenAI API model ID. I would resolve that during adapter setup before any paid run.

The updated specification is clear and build-ready. I also verified that both API model IDs and settings are valid.

Fastest execution order
1. Start the build — Me
You tell me:

Build the complete pilot repository. Run tests and dry runs, but make no paid API calls.

I will then:

Scaffold the Python repository and configs.
Preserve the frozen experimental specification.
Pin and sample 200 MMLU-Pro questions deterministically.
Build typed schemas and crash-safe checkpointing.
Implement OpenAI gpt-5.6-sol with reasoning disabled.
Implement Anthropic claude-sonnet-5 with thinking disabled.
Implement all three experimental stages.
Add retries, parsing, failure recording, and resumability.
Implement baselines, calibration, bootstrap confidence intervals, metrics, diagnostics, tables, and figures.
Write collaborator documentation and exact commands.
Install dependencies, run tests, and run zero-cost dry runs.
You do not need to prepare anything before this.

2. Prepare API access in parallel — You
While I build:


 Ensure you have OpenAI API access and billing enabled.

 Ensure you have Anthropic API access and billing enabled.

 Confirm both accounts can access the specified models.

 Create API keys.

 Set reasonable spending limits on both accounts.

 Do not paste keys into chat.
Once the repository is ready, you will place them in the ignored local .env:

OPENAI_API_KEY=...
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=...
3. Validate everything without spending money — Me
I will confirm:


 All tests pass.

 The sample contains exactly 200 questions.

 Domain stratification and saved IDs are correct.

 Model payloads use the required settings.

 Expected request count is 2,400.

 Approximate token and dollar cost is displayed.

 Checkpoint and resume paths work.

 No API key is required for dry runs.
4. Run a tiny paid smoke test — You authorize, I execute
Before risking the full pilot:


 You explicitly authorize paid calls.

 I run one question through both models and all stages—12 calls total.

 I verify parsing, token usage, checkpointing, scoring, and provider metadata.

 I fix any provider-specific issue before scaling.
5. Run the complete pilot — You authorize, I execute
In order:


 Stage 1: 400 answer requests.

 Check completion and parse rates.

 Stage 2: 400 confidence requests.

 Check completion and confidence distributions.

 Stage 3: 1,600 RELY/VERIFY requests.

 Resume safely if interrupted.

 Retry only failed requests where appropriate.
After reviewing the dry-run estimate, one explicit authorization can cover this staged pilot.

6. Analyze the pilot — Me
I will generate:


 Accuracy and confidence calibration.

 VERIFY and unsafe-reliance rates by stake.

 Unnecessary verification.

 Monotonicity violations.

 Direct-versus-confidence disagreements.

 Cost and regret against every baseline.

 Bootstrap confidence intervals.

 Diagnostic examples.

 Publication-ready figures and tables.

 A compact GO/MODIFY/KILL evidence report.
7. Make the research decision — Us
You make the final scientific decision using the generated evidence:

GO: add a third model family and run 1,400 questions.
MODIFY: document and version prompt/cost-grid changes, then rerun.
KILL/REDESIGN: avoid spending more if the behavior is uninteresting.
8. Produce the paper — Me
If the experiment proceeds:


 Generate the final paper-output bundle.

 Draft the four-page workshop paper.

 Keep claims limited to what the experiment measured.

 Add GPQA only if time and pilot results justify it.
The fastest next move is to tell me: “Build the complete pilot repository, with no paid API calls.”